add the middleware.ts API reference file convention (#61037)
vercel/next.js: docs/02-app/02-api-reference/02-file-conventions/middleware.mdx

---
title: middleware.js
description: API reference for the middleware.js  file.
related:
  title: Learn more about Middleware
  links:
    - app/building-your-application/routing/middleware
---

> The `middleware.ts` file is used to write [Middleware](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware) and run code on the server before a request is completed. Then, based on the incoming request, you can modify the response by rewriting, redirecting, modifying the request or response headers, or responding directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `middleware.ts` (or .js) file is used to write [Middleware](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware) and run code on the server before a request is completed. Then, based on the incoming request, you can modify the response by rewriting, redirecting, modifying the request or response headers, or responding directly.
```

> The `middleware.ts` (or .js) file is used to write [Middleware](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware) and run code on the server before a request is completed. Then, based on the incoming request, you can modify the response by rewriting, redirecting, modifying the request or response headers, or responding directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `middleware.js|ts` file is used to write [Middleware](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware) and run code on the server before a request is completed. Then, based on the incoming request, you can modify the response by rewriting, redirecting, modifying the request or response headers, or responding directly.
```

> Middleware executes before routes are rendered. It's particularly useful for implementing custom server-side functionalities like authentication, logging, or handling redirects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Middleware executes before routes are rendered. It's particularly useful for implementing custom server-side logic like authentication, logging, or handling redirects.
```

> Use the file `middleware.ts` (or .js) in the root of your project to define Middleware. For example, at the same level as pages or app, or inside src if applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the file `middleware.ts` (or .js) in the root of your project to define Middleware. For example, at the same level as `app` or `pages`, or inside `src` if applicable.
```

```tsx filename="middleware.ts" switcher

> import { NextResponse } from 'next/server'
> import type { NextRequest } from 'next/server'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import { NextResponse, NextRequest } from 'next/server'
```

// This function can be marked `async` if using `await` inside
export function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return NextResponse.redirect(new URL('/home', request.url))
}

export const config = {
  matcher: '/about/:path*',
}
```

> ```jsx filename="middleware.js" switcher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js filename="middleware.js" switcher
```

import { NextResponse } from 'next/server'

// This function can be marked `async` if using `await` inside
export function middleware(request) {
  return NextResponse.redirect(new URL('/home', request.url))
}

export const config = {
  matcher: '/about/:path*',
}
```

## Exports

> ### Middleware Function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Middleware function
```

> The `middleware.ts` (or `.js`) file must export a single middleware function, either as a default or named export. Note that multiple middleware exports from the same file are not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `middleware.ts` (or `.js`) file must export a single Middleware function, either as a default or named export. Note that multiple middleware exports from the same file are not supported.
```

> The `middleware.ts` (or `.js`) file must export a single middleware function, either as a default or named export. Note that multiple middleware exports from the same file are not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `middleware.ts` (or `.js`) file must export a single Middleware function, either as a default or named export. Note that multiple Middleware exports from the same file are not supported.
```

> The `middleware.ts` (or `.js`) file must export a single Middleware function, either as a default or named export. Note that multiple Middleware exports from the same file are not supported.

Reviewer 2: Clarify that it can either be a default export, or a function named `middleware`

```suggestion
The file must export a single function, either as a default export or named `middleware`. Note that multiple middleware from the same file are not supported.
```

```jsx
// Example of default export
export default function middleware(request) {
  // Middleware logic
}
```

> ### Config Object (Optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Config object (optional)
```

> Optionally, a config object can be exported alongside the middleware function. This object includes various settings, like [matcher](#matcher), to specify paths where the middleware applies, and other configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, a config object can be exported alongside the Middleware function. This object includes various settings, like [matcher](#matcher), to specify paths where the Middleware applies, and other configuration options.
```

> ```jsx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
```

> Optionally, a config object can be exported alongside the Middleware function. This object includes various settings, like [matcher](#matcher), to specify paths where the Middleware applies, and other configuration options.

Reviewer 2: We should find out what these options are, and name them here in the API reference.

export const config = {
  matcher: '/about/:path*',
  // Other configuration options
}
```

## Params

### `request`

> When defining middleware, the default export function accepts a single parameter, `request`. This parameter is an instance of `NextRequest`, which represents the incoming HTTP request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When defining Middleware, the default export function accepts a single parameter, `request`. This parameter is an instance of `NextRequest`, which represents the incoming HTTP request.
```

```tsx filename="middleware.ts" switcher
import type { NextRequest } from 'next/server'

export function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  // Middleware logic goes here
}
```

> ```jsx filename="middleware.js" switcher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js filename="middleware.js" switcher
```

export function middleware(request) {
  // Middleware logic goes here
}
```

> **Note**:

> > `NextRequest` is a type that represents incoming HTTP requests in Next.js middleware, whereas [`NextResponse`](#nextresponse) is a class used to manipulate and send back HTTP responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> `NextRequest` is a type that represents incoming HTTP requests in Next.js Middleware, whereas [`NextResponse`](#nextresponse) is a class used to manipulate and send back HTTP responses.
```

> > **Note**:
> > `NextRequest` is a type that represents incoming HTTP requests in Next.js Middleware, whereas [`NextResponse`](#nextresponse) is a class used to manipulate and send back HTTP responses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Good to know**:
>
> - `NextRequest` is a type that represents incoming HTTP requests in Next.js Middleware, whereas [`NextResponse`](#nextresponse) is a class used to manipulate and send back HTTP responses.
```

## NextResponse

> Middleware can utilize [`NextResponse`](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware#nextresponse) to enhance route handling capabilities. By returning a `NextResponse` object, you can directly manipulate cookies, set headers, implement redirects, and rewrite paths.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Middleware can use the [`NextResponse`](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware#nextresponse) object which extends the [Web Response API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response). By returning a `NextResponse` object, you can directly manipulate cookies, set headers, implement redirects, and rewrite paths.
```

> Middleware can utilize [`NextResponse`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware#nextresponse) to enhance route handling capabilities. By returning a `NextResponse` object, you can directly manipulate cookies, set headers, implement redirects, and rewrite paths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Middleware can utilize [`NextResponse`](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware#nextresponse) to enhance route handling capabilities. By returning a `NextResponse` object, you can directly manipulate cookies, set headers, implement redirects, and rewrite paths.
```

> **Good to know**: For redirects, you can also use `Response.redirect` instead of `NextResponse.redirect`.

## Matcher

> [`matcher`](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware#matcher) allows you to filter Middleware to run on specific paths. For a single path, directly provide the path string. For multiple paths, use an array. For instance, `matcher: ['/about', '/contact']` applies Middleware to both the `/about` and `/contact` paths. Matcher supports full regular expressions, enabling complex patterns like negative lookaheads or specific character matches.

Reviewer 2: Should this go under the Config Object section?

> [`matcher`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware#matcher) allows you to filter Middleware to run on specific paths. For a single path, directly provide the path string. For multiple paths, use an array. For instance, `matcher: ['/about', '/contact']` applies Middleware to both the `/about` and `/contact` paths. Matcher supports full regular expressions, enabling complex patterns like negative lookaheads or specific character matches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`matcher`](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware#matcher) allows you to filter middleware to run on specific paths. For a single path, directly provide the path string. For multiple paths, use an array. For instance, `matcher: ['/about', '/contact']` applies middleware to both the `/about` and `/contact` paths. Matcher supports full regular expressions, enabling complex patterns like negative lookaheads or specific character matches.
```

```tsx filename="middleware.ts" switcher
import { NextResponse, NextRequest } from 'next/server'

// This function can be marked `async` if using `await` inside
export function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return NextResponse.redirect(new URL('/home', request.url))
}

export const config = {
  matcher: '/about/:path*',
}
```

```js filename="middleware.js" switcher
import { NextResponse } from 'next/server'

// This function can be marked `async` if using `await` inside
export function middleware(request) {
  return NextResponse.redirect(new URL('/home', request.url))
}

export const config = {
  matcher: '/about/:path*',
}
```

## Exports

### Middleware function

The file must export a single function, either as a default export or named `middleware`. Note that multiple middleware from the same file are not supported.

```js filename="middleware.js"
// Example of default export
export default function middleware(request) {
  // Middleware logic
}
```

### Config object (optional)

Optionally, a config object can be exported alongside the Middleware function. This object includes the [matcher](#matcher) to specify paths where the Middleware applies.

#### Matcher

> [`matcher`](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware#matcher) is a feature in Middleware that allows you to target specific paths for the Middleware to operate on. You can specify these paths in several ways:

Reviewer 2: Removing link as it links to current section. 

```suggestion
The `matcher` option allows you to target specific paths for the Middleware to run on. You can specify these paths in several ways:
```

- For a single path: Directly use a string to define the path, like `'/about'`.
- For multiple paths: Use an array to list multiple paths, such as `matcher: ['/about', '/contact']`, which applies the Middleware to both `/about` and `/contact`.

> Additionally, `matcher` supports complex path specifications through regular expressions, enabling precise control over which paths to include or exclude.

Reviewer 2: Would you like to add a regular expression example here?

> In the matcher configuration, several key options are available:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `matcher` option also accepts an array of objects with the following keys:
```

> - `source`: The path or pattern used to match the request paths. It can be a simple string for direct path matching or a pattern for more complex matching.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `source`: The path or pattern used to match the request paths. It can be a string for direct path matching or a pattern for more complex matching.
```

- `regexp` (optional): A regular expression string that fine-tunes the matching based on the source. It provides additional control over which paths are included or excluded.

> - `locale` (optional): A boolean key that, when set to false, ignores locale-based routing in path matching.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `locale` (optional): A boolean that, when set to `false`, ignores locale-based routing in path matching.
```

The `matcher` option also accepts an array of objects with the following keys:

- `source`: The path or pattern used to match the request paths. It can be a string for direct path matching or a pattern for more complex matching.
- `regexp` (optional): A regular expression string that fine-tunes the matching based on the source. It provides additional control over which paths are included or excluded.
- `locale` (optional): A boolean that, when set to `false`, ignores locale-based routing in path matching.
- `has` (optional): Specifies conditions based on the presence of specific request elements such as headers, query parameters, or cookies.
- `missing` (optional): Focuses on conditions where certain request elements are absent, like missing headers or cookies.

```js filename="middleware.js"
export const config = {
  matcher: [
    {
      source: '/api/*',
      regexp: '^/api/(.*)',
      locale: false,
      has: [
        { type: 'header', key: 'Authorization', value: 'Bearer Token' },
        { type: 'query', key: 'userId', value: '123' },
      ],
      missing: [{ type: 'cookie', key: 'session', value: 'active' }],
    },
  ],
}
```

#### Regions

> The `regions` option allows you to specify the regions where the Middleware runs. By default, Middleware runs in all regions. By specifying `regions`, you can control where your middleware code runs in terms of geographic location.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `regions` option allows you to specify the geographic locations where the Middleware runs. By default, Middleware runs in all regions. 
```

---
title: middleware.js
description: API reference for the middleware.js  file.
related:
  title: Learn more about Middleware
  links:
    - app/building-your-application/routing/middleware
---

> The middleware.ts file in Next.js is used to run code on the server before a request is finished. It provides the ability to modify the response based on the incoming request. This can include operations like URL rewriting, redirecting, altering request or response headers, or even sending a direct response.

Reviewer 2: For consistency, you could reuse the word from the middleware docs: 

```suggestion
The `middleware.ts` file is used to write [Middleware](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware) and run code on the server before a request is completed. Then, based on the incoming request, you can modify the response by rewriting, redirecting, modifying the request or response headers, or responding directly.
```

> Middleware executes before the content is served from the cache and before routes are matched. It's particularly useful for implementing custom server-side functionalities like authentication, logging, or handling specific path patterns.

Reviewer 2: Would it be easier for users to understand this sentence if we say rendering? It may be a bit confusing since there's a matcher option in the config object. 

```suggestion
Middleware executes before routes are rendered. It's particularly useful for implementing custom server-side functionalities like authentication, logging, or handling redirects.
```

Use the file `middleware.ts` (or .js) in the root of your project to define Middleware. For example, at the same level as pages or app, or inside src if applicable.

```tsx filename="middleware.ts" switcher
import { NextResponse } from 'next/server'
import type { NextRequest } from 'next/server'

// This function can be marked `async` if using `await` inside
export function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return NextResponse.redirect(new URL('/home', request.url))
}

export const config = {
  matcher: '/about/:path*',
}
```

```jsx filename="middleware.js" switcher
import { NextResponse } from 'next/server'

// This function can be marked `async` if using `await` inside
export function middleware(request) {
  return NextResponse.redirect(new URL('/home', request.url))
}

export const config = {
  matcher: '/about/:path*',
}
```

> ## Matcher

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we can create a section called **Exports**, and talk about how:

 1. The middleware file **must** export a default function or a named `middleware` function, and the params it receives. 
 2. You can export an **optional** config object (which includes the matcher key, but also other options). We should include all the other options here in the reference.

Author: Thanks for the feedback! Made these changes, let me know what you think :)

[`matcher`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware#matcher) allows you to filter Middleware to run on specific paths. For a single path, directly provide the path string. For multiple paths, use an array. For instance, `matcher: ['/about', '/contact']` applies Middleware to both the `/about` and `/contact` paths. Matcher supports full regular expressions, enabling complex patterns like negative lookaheads or specific character matches.

> ## NextResponse

Reviewer 2: You can add a new section called **Params** to show the arguments the default export function in the file accepts (req). Here's an example from the other file API references: https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/page#props

Here, for middleware, we should use `Params` instead of `Props` because it's a function, not a component. 

It might be worth noting a small quirk that usually throws people off. When importing `NextRequest` and `NextResponse`, they look similar, but one is a type and the other is a class. 

Since the `request` is passed to the default function, we give it the type, `NextRequest` . e.g. `export async function middleware(request: NextRequest)`.

`NextResponse`, on the other hand, is imported and used within the function, but not passed.

Middleware can utilize [`NextResponse`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware#nextresponse) to enhance route handling capabilities. By returning a `NextResponse` object, you can directly manipulate cookies, set headers, implement redirects, and rewrite paths.

## Runtime

> Middleware currently only supports the [Edge runtime](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/edge-and-nodejs-runtimes). The Node.js runtime can not be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Middleware only supports the [Edge runtime](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/edge-and-nodejs-runtimes). The Node.js runtime cannot be used.
```
